---
layout: post
title:  "This site and how it works"
date:   2018-01-07 22:27:55
---

A bit about how this site works, since that seems like an appropriate first
post. This site has been around since 2014, when I acquired the domain, but I
haven't done anything with it besides having a basic website here until making
this post in 2018. Seems like a long time to not have an actual site, but I
wanted to keep the domain (it's so short!), and it's useful to have a domain
for adding custom DNS things when needed. This site's content is all open
source and viewable on GitHub at
[jvperrin/jvperrin.github.io](https://github.com/jvperrin/jvperrin.github.io).

Anyway, onto the site's actual workings. It uses [GitHub
Pages](https://pages.github.com/) with [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), like
many other sites out there. This works amazingly for mostly static content,
like this site. This site uses [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) for
SSL to help keep your browsing secure (and fast!), and even redirects from HTTP
to HTTPS using Cloudflare's Page Rules to enforce redirecting
`http://*jvp.io/*` to use HTTPS even if someone visits the site via HTTP at
first.

Unfortunately, since this site uses GitHub Pages with a custom domain, it
[lacks IPv6 support](https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/354), but I'd love
to add it when it becomes available for custom domains.

Another drawback of using GitHub pages is that it doesn't have SSL for custom
domains, so the connection between you and my website here is not fully
encrypted. Only the first connection between you and Cloudflare is encrypted,
the connection between Cloudflare's SSL terminators and GitHub is unencrypted,
but this site is entirely static anyway, so I don't think that really matters
that much. Still, I'd definitely prefer it if everything was SSL, so I'll keep
an eye out for [any updates](https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/156) on
the situation.

As for the site's front-end workings, it uses
[One-Nexus](https://github.com/esr360/One-Nexus), which I think is an
underappreciated project to create nice looking interfaces, both on your
computer and phone. It's also quite easy to set up for static websites and uses
[Sass](http://sass-lang.com/), so that's a bit nicer when developing with it.

[Let me know](/contact) if you have any questions!
